---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-04-21
published: false
labels:
  - Assignment 2
---

### 1. Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details

[Assignment 2](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2.html) is a continuation from Assignment 1. We had to upgrade our e-commerce website to allow users to login and register and account. Data also had to be persistent where user infromation entered in the registration form had to be stored and used for when the user logs in. Additionally, we had to implement several security measures. For instance, users were not allowed to purchase items or access the invoice page without logging in. After a successful login, we also were required to personalize the invoice page to the user by displaying their name. 

### 2. What did you learn from this assignment?

From Assignment 2, I learned about the functions readFileSync(), existsSync(), and writeFileSync(), which were all useful for being able to check if a file and a specific email exists, as well as write data to the user data file, which were all extremely useful for the login and registration pages. I also gained a better understanding of how to use query strings and how to pass errors and product quantities as query string parameters in the URL. 

### 3. Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).

No, I did not work with a partner. 

### 4. How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?

When I needed help, I first tried to figure it out on my own by using the resources I had available, such as W3Schools and ChatGPT. If I still needed help, I would ask my friends, but I found that we were often dealing with the same problems. Looking back on it, I realize it would be best for me to receive help from Professor Port. Throughout this entire assignment, I needed help with passing my quantities to the invoice page. 

### 5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?



### 6. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging

I would say that I took 30% of the time thinking of how to do something, 10% of the time writing code, and 60% of the time testing and debugging. For this assignment, I had to do a lot of testing and debugging for mainly passing the quantities, errors, and doing the validations. 

### 7. Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?

I think besides the small setbacks I had, I think that doing the validation for login and registration was, despite being very tedious, sort of enjoyable. It also went more smoothly than expected. As I mentioned, passing quantities to the invoice page did not work well at all. While the quantities passed to the login page, I could not get it to pass to the invoice. This ate up a lot of my time and slowed my overall progress with the assignment. I would work on this one problem for hours on end, and often became so exhausted that I did not have the energy to shift to other tasks I had to do for the assignment. 

### 8. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?

If I could go back in time, I probably would have started a day or two earlier. I told myself I would start early, but I instead gave myself time to recover from finishing Assignment 1. I also mistakenly thought we would have around two weeks for this assingment from looking at past E5 essays, but we were given less time than anticipated. I also would have probably asked for help earlier, as my progress was so slow when trying to figure out problems myself, especially when I didn't have a proper understanding of what I needed to do. I found that I would often get lost in the path that the user would need to take while navigating the website and how I could execute it. I now realize that this would have probably came easier to me if I took the time to draw or write down the path so I could get a better visual understanding of what I needed to do. 
