---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E6: Evaluation Guidelines and Class Retrospective BLOG"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-05-12
published: true
labels:
  - Assignment 3
---
### 1. Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)

My e-commerce website, Nomimonz, sells a variety of Japanese drinks, including soda or carbonated drinks, juices, and tea drinks. 

### 2. Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?

Unfortunately, although I am able to store user-selected quantities into a session, at the time I'm writing this essay, I am still unable to generate the quantities and respective product information onto the shopping cart page. Because of this, I am also unable to properly generate the invoice for selected quantities. I tried to work around this and fulfill any requirements that I could, but overall, my store is quite lacking at the moment. :^( 

### 3. Describe what you are most proud of about your system:

To make up for the lack of shopping cart functionality, I put a lot of effort into the personalization and persisting logged-in status requirements for Assignment 3. I guess that I can say that I am proud of the design of the website, especially the login and registration pages. At the same time, I wish I could have added more to the design, as well as additional features like a search bar and a drop-down navigation bar. 

### 4. Describe what you are least happy with your system:

I'm least happy with the fact that I was not able to implement a working shopping cart. Although we have reached the deadline for Assignment 3, I plan to continue working on developing undeveloped aspects of my site during the break, as it doesn't feel good leaving things unfinished. 

### 5. How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?

Although I mentioned the unfamiliarity that came with doing Assignment 2 in my last reflection essay, I felt much more lost while doing this assignment. I can assume that it's because at the time of starting Assignment 3, I still was not entirely grasping the use of cookies and sessions, as well as how they can be applied to the requirements we needed to fulfill. 

### 6. When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?

When I ran into a problem, I tended to trace back my steps to see if I could identify the issue. If I couldn't fix the problem right away on my own, I would rely on the Assignment 3 examples, the internet, and ChatGPT to help me. For the first time this semester, I went for one-on-one help with Professor Port, as I needed a start on using sessions for the shopping cart. 

### 7. Describe what worked well in doing this assignment. 

I was able to implement cookies and sessions for logged-in status persistence and personalization, which was more convenient than passing data through the URL parameters. 

### 8. Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment. 

I think that ultimately, not fully understanding how to implement cookies and sessions came to bite me, especially when trying to get the shopping cart to function. Looking back, I think I sort of underestimated the difficulty of Assignment 3 after experiencing the first two assignments, which was definitely a mistake. The process of using cookies and sessions seemed simple, however, I struggled with having a clear vision on how I wanted to implement them into the functionality of my store. 

### 9. What did you learn from doing this assignment?

Overall, this assignment was a huge wake-up call for me to review the basic fundamental concepts of programming, as most of the time, I felt so stuck in place and unable to think of appropriate lines of code that would help me with my problem. I'm quite the slow learner, so I think that in my own time (summer break), I will need to refine my skills and relearn a lot of the concepts we covered this semester. But from this assignment specifically, I have learned about cookies and sessions, especially setting and retrieving cookies. 

### 10. If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?

If I could go back in time and do things differently, I would have definitely started sooner. The week that Assignment 3 was assigned just so happened to be the busiest week of the semester for me, where I had a final exam and two presentations to prepare for. Even if I did not have the time to actually start the assignment itself, I really wish I spent more time trying to understand the cookies and sessions lab, as this would have made my progress a lot smoother. 

### 11. Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging

For Assignment 3, I would say I spent 30% of the time thinking, 15% writing code, and 55% of the time testing and debugging. I would sit for hours trying to backtrack and fix my errors, so debugging ate up a lot of my time.  

### 12. Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)

I did not work in a team. 
